[SYCL] Add support for sycl::ext::oneapi::property::queue::use_priority (#7523)
intel/llvm: sycl/doc/extensions/supported/sycl_ext_oneapi_queue_priority.asciidoc

= sycl_ext_oneapi_queue_priority

:source-highlighter: coderay
:coderay-linenums-mode: table

// This section needs to be after the document title.
:doctype: book
:toc2:
:toc: left
:encoding: utf-8
:lang: en
:dpcpp: pass:[DPC++]

// Set the default source code type in this document to C++,
// for syntax highlighting purposes.  This is needed because
// docbook uses c++ and html5 uses cpp.
:language: {basebackend@docbook:c++:cpp}

== Notice

[%hardbreaks]
Copyright (C) 2022-2022 Intel Corporation.  All rights reserved.

Khronos(R) is a registered trademark and SYCL(TM) and SPIR(TM) are trademarks
of The Khronos Group Inc.  OpenCL(TM) is a trademark of Apple Inc. used by
permission by Khronos.

== Contact

To report problems with this extension, please open a new issue at:

https://github.com/intel/llvm/issues

== Dependencies

> This extension is written against the SYCL 2020 revision 4 specification.  All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension is written against the SYCL 2020 revision 6 specification.  All
```

references below to the "core SYCL specification" or to section numbers in the
SYCL specification refer to that revision.

== Status

This extension is implemented and fully supported by {dpcpp}.

> Although {dpcpp} supports this extension on all backends, it is currently used
> only on Level Zero. Other backends ignore this new property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
Although {dpcpp} supports this extension on all backends, it is currently used
only on Level Zero. Other backends ignore the properties defined in this specification.
====
```

Our convention is to highlight implementation limitations as "NOTE" callouts.  I think the suggestion above will do this, but check it in the rendered HTML.

Author: OK

== Overview

> Introduce SYCL queue property specifying desired priority of the queue.
> This priority is a hint and may be ignored if not supported by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Introduce SYCL queue properties specifying the desired priority of a queue.
These properties are a hint and may be ignored if not supported by
```

This extension provides a feature-test macro as described in the core SYCL
specification.  An implementation supporting this extension must predefine
the macro `SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_QUEUE_PRIORITY` to one of the values defined
in the table below.  Applications can test for the existence of this macro
to determine if the implementation supports this feature, or applications
can test the macro's value to determine which of the extension's features
the implementation supports.

[%header,cols="1,5"]
|===
|Value
|Description

|1
|Initial version of this extension.
|===

=== API of the extension

This extension adds support for new properties for SYCL queue constructors
taking properties list:

```c++
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::property::queue {

  class priority_normal {
  public:
    priority_normal() = default;
  };
  class priority_low {
  public:
    priority_low() = default;
  };
  class priority_high {
  public:
    priority_high() = default;
  };

} // namespace
```
The new properties hint the SYCL runtime that the queue gets the specified
priority for execution if supported by underlying target runtimes. These
properties are hints and may safely be ignored by an implementation.

> It is illegal to specify multiple differrent priority hints for the same queue,
> and would result in `invalid` exception thrown by SYCL runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is illegal to specify multiple differrent priority hints for the same queue.
Doing so causes the `queue` constructor to throw a synchronous `exception` with
the `errc::invalid` error code.
```

= sycl_ext_oneapi_queue_priority

:source-highlighter: coderay
:coderay-linenums-mode: table

// This section needs to be after the document title.
:doctype: book
:toc2:
:toc: left
:encoding: utf-8
:lang: en
:dpcpp: pass:[DPC++]

// Set the default source code type in this document to C++,
// for syntax highlighting purposes.  This is needed because
// docbook uses c++ and html5 uses cpp.
:language: {basebackend@docbook:c++:cpp}

== Notice

[%hardbreaks]
Copyright (C) 2022-2022 Intel Corporation.  All rights reserved.

Khronos(R) is a registered trademark and SYCL(TM) and SPIR(TM) are trademarks
of The Khronos Group Inc.  OpenCL(TM) is a trademark of Apple Inc. used by
permission by Khronos.

== Contact

To report problems with this extension, please open a new issue at:

https://github.com/intel/llvm/issues

== Dependencies

> This extension is written against the SYCL 2020 revision 4 specification.  All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension is written against the SYCL 2020 revision 6 specification.  All
```

This is the latest.

references below to the "core SYCL specification" or to section numbers in the
SYCL specification refer to that revision.

== Status

This extension is implemented and fully supported by {dpcpp}.

> 

Reviewer: Add a NOTE here saying it is only meaningful on Level Zero.  Maybe something like:

> Although {dpcpp} supports this extension on all backends, it is currently used only on Level Zero.  Other backends ignore this new property.

specification.  An implementation supporting this extension must predefine
the macro `SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_QUEUE_PRIORITY` to one of the values defined
in the table below.  Applications can test for the existence of this macro
to determine if the implementation supports this feature, or applications
can test the macro's value to determine which of the extension's features
the implementation supports.

[%header,cols="1,5"]
|===
|Value
|Description

|1
|Initial version of this extension.
|===

=== API of the extension

This extension adds support for a new property for SYCL queue constructors
taking properties list:

```c++
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::property::queue {

  class use_priority {
  public:
    using priority_type = enum {
      normal = 0, // default
      low = 1,
      high = 2
    };
    use_priority(priority_type);
  };

} // namespace
```
The new property hints the SYCL runtime that the queue gets the specified
priority for execution if supported by underlying target runtimes. This
property is a hint and may safely be ignored by an implementation. In the
initial version (`SYCL_EXT_ONEAPI_QUEUE_PRIORITY` equals to `1`) it is

> supported by Level Zero backend only.

Reviewer: You can delete this last sentence since the information is now conveyed in the "Status" section.
